_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome!"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hey there! I'm Shiwei, a senior math major at UC Berkeley. My main interests are broadly in applied mathematics, specifically machine learning. Previously, I was a software engineering intern at [Heimdall Data](https://www.heimdalldata.com/), where I worked on caching and querying processes within the Heimdall proxy. In the past, I was also involved in competitive programming, and coached high school students to promote to the Silver and Gold divisions in the USA Computing Olympiad (USACO). 

Aside from academics, I play piano, arrange music, and walk my pet Shibas for fun. I also enjoy performing music with The Intermission Orchestra at UC Berkeley. If you're equally interested in any of the above, let's chat! My email is [aprilschen@berkeley.edu](mailto:aprilschen@berkeley.edu).

You can find various things that I work on around my website. Below are my coursework and some course notes I've taken, as well as links to projects and other miscellaneous fun things I've made over the years. Some pointers to things I think you'll find interesting:

 - My professional information, being my [teaching](/teaching) and my [resume](/files/resume.pdf).
 - My [repository](https://github.com/aprilschen) of viewable personal projects.
 - My [project](/files/LoRA_LinAlg.pdf) on Low-Rank Adaptation for my Linear Algebra class.
 - My [paper](/files/Math710final.pdf) on Probability and Brownian Motion for my Measure Theory class.
 - My [blog](/year-archive), where I talk about topics important to me.

Commit message:

edit georgia tech and uncountable

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome!"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hey there! I'm Shiwei, an incoming Software Engineer at [Uncountable](https://www.uncountable.com/) and 1st-year MS in Computer Science at Georgia Tech. My main interests are broadly in machine learning and computational sciences, which was the focus of my undergrad at Berkeley.

I'm passionate about developing meaningful software and delivering value to others. This interest led me to begin my undergraduate studies at 16 and graduate from Berkeley at 18, becoming one of the youngest-ever graduate students in the College of Computing at Georgia Tech. I am also heavily involved in the competitive programming community, having spent the last three years coaching students for the Silver and Gold divisions of the USA Computing Olympiad. 

Aside from academics, I play piano, arrange music, and walk my pet Shibas for fun. I also enjoy performing music with The Intermission Orchestra at UC Berkeley. If you're equally interested in any of the above, let's chat! My email is [aprilschen@berkeley.edu](mailto:aprilschen@berkeley.edu).

You can find various things that I work on around my website. Below are my coursework and some course notes I've taken, as well as links to projects and other miscellaneous fun things I've made over the years. There's also my personal [blog](/year-archive), which I'll start writing in... one day. Here are some pointers to things I think you'll find interesting:

 - My professional information, being my [teaching](/teaching) and my [resume](/files/shiwei_chen_resume.pdf).
 - My [repository](https://github.com/aprilschen) of viewable personal projects.
 - My [project](/files/LoRA_LinAlg.pdf) on Low-Rank Adaptation for my Linear Algebra class.
 - My [paper](/files/Math710final.pdf) on Probability and Brownian Motion for my Measure Theory class.
